readme.md, before:


<H1 align='center'>
unocss-wechat
</H1>


<p align='center'>
<b>English</b> | <a href="https://github.com/MellowCo/unocss-wechat/blob/main/readme.zh-CN.md">简体中文</a>
</p>

miniprogram，unocss example

![](https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209141354363.gif)

---

related links
* [UnoCSS](https://github.com/unocss/unocss) - the instant on-demand atomic css engine.
* [unocss-preset-weapp](https://github.com/MellowCo/unocss-preset-weapp) - the unocss preset for wechat miniprogram.

---
## set unocss preset
> two methods to choose from

### method one： use common configuration
> this method uses the built-in presets in `unocss` and solves the following configuration
>
> 1. solve the problem that the small program does not support the * selector
> 2. rem unit to rpx

1. [use npm in miniprogram](https://developers.weixin.qq.com/miniprogram/dev/devtools/npm.html)，install `unocss`

```sh
npm -D unocss
```

2. unocss.config

```js
import { defineConfig, presetUno } from "unocss";

const remRE = /^-?[\.\d]+rem$/

export default defineConfig({
    presets: [
      presetUno(),
    ],
    theme:{
      // 解决小程序不支持 * 选择器
      preflightRoot: ["page,::before,::after"]
    },
    postprocess(util) {
      // 自定义rem 转 rpx
      util.entries.forEach((i) => {
        const value = i[1]
        if (value && typeof value === 'string' && remRE.test(value))
          i[1] = `${value.slice(0, -3) * 16 * 2}rpx`
      })
    },
  })
```

---
### method two： use unocss-preset-weapp

> this method uses the `unocss-preset-weapp` preset, which solves the following configuration
>
> because the miniprogram does not support escape class, like `\` `\:` `\[` `\$` `\.`, so need transform  `bg-#81ecec/50` to `bg-hex-81ecec_50`

1. use 'hex' instead of '#' , `_` instead of `:` `/`
    * for example, `bg-#81ecec/50` can be converted to `bg-hex-81ecec_50`

2. for '`hover:` and `active:`, `separators` can be set to specify the separator
    * for example, setting `separators` to `__`, `hover:bg-red-500` can be converted to `hover__bg-red-500`


[use npm in miniprogram](https://developers.weixin.qq.com/miniprogram/dev/devtools/npm.html)，install `unocss unocss-preset-weapp`

```shell
npm -D unocss unocss-preset-weapp
```

---
2. unocss.config

```js
import { defineConfig } from "unocss";
import presetWeapp from 'unocss-preset-weapp'

const include = [/\.wxml$/]

export default defineConfig({
  content:{
    pipeline:{
      include
    }
  },
  presets: [
    presetWeapp(),
  ],
  separators:'__'
})
```

---
## generate unocss.wxss

1. `package.json`，setting `script`
> use `@unocss/cli` to listen to file content，[documents](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages/cli)
```json
{
  "scripts": {
     "unocss": "unocss pages/**/*.wxml -c unocss.config.js --watch -o unocss.wxss",
     "unocss:build": "unocss pages/**/*.wxml -c unocss.config.js -o  unocss.wxss"
  }
}
```


---
4. run `npm run unocss`
> `wxml` content changes, trigger the generation of new `unocss.wxss`

![](https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209141401533.png)


---
5. import `unocss.wxss`
>  in `app.wxss`, impoort generated ` unocss.wxss`

```css
/**app.wxss**/
@import "./unocss.wxss";

.container {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: space-between;
  align-items: center;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  padding: 200rpx 0;
  height: 100%;
}
```

![](https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209141354363.gif)

---
## use vscode `unocss` plugin
* vscode `settings.json`

```json
  // 文件类型
"files.associations": {
  "*.wxml": "html",
},
```

<img src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209212036840.gif" style="zoom:50%;" />

---
## transformer

using `transformer` in mini programs will change the original file and is not recommended

* unocss.config.js
> add `transformerClass`，setting include `wxml`
```js
import { defineConfig } from "unocss";
import presetWeapp from 'unocss-preset-weapp'
import { transformerClass } from 'unocss-preset-weapp/transformer';

const include = [/\.wxml$/]

export default defineConfig({
  content:{
    pipeline:{
      include
    }
  },
  presets: [
    presetWeapp(),
  ],
  
  transformers:[
    transformerClass({
      include
    })
  ]
})
```

![](https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209212019320.gif)

Commit message:

chore: update readme for `box-shadow`

readme.md, after:


<H1 align='center'>
unocss-wechat
</H1>


<p align='center'>
<b>English</b> | <a href="https://github.com/MellowCo/unocss-wechat/blob/main/readme.zh-CN.md">简体中文</a>
</p>

miniprogram，unocss example

![](https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209141354363.gif)

---

related links
* [UnoCSS](https://github.com/unocss/unocss) - the instant on-demand atomic css engine.
* [unocss-preset-weapp](https://github.com/MellowCo/unocss-preset-weapp) - the unocss preset for wechat miniprogram.

---
## set unocss preset
> two methods to choose from

### method one： use common configuration
> this method uses the built-in presets in `unocss` and solves the following configuration
>
> 1. solve the problem that the small program does not support the * selector
> 2. rem unit to rpx

1. [use npm in miniprogram](https://developers.weixin.qq.com/miniprogram/dev/devtools/npm.html)，install `unocss`

```sh
npm -D unocss
```

2. unocss.config

```js
import { defineConfig, presetUno } from "unocss";

const remRE = /^-?[\.\d]+rem$/

export default defineConfig({
    presets: [
      presetUno(),
    ],
    theme:{
      // 解决小程序不支持 * 选择器
      preflightRoot: ["page,::before,::after"]
    },
    postprocess(util) {
      // 自定义rem 转 rpx
      util.entries.forEach((i) => {
        const value = i[1]
        if (value && typeof value === 'string' && remRE.test(value))
          i[1] = `${value.slice(0, -3) * 16 * 2}rpx`
      })
    },
  })
```

---
### method two： use unocss-preset-weapp

> this method uses the `unocss-preset-weapp` preset, which solves the following configuration
>
> because the miniprogram does not support escape class, like `\` `\:` `\[` `\$` `\.`, so need transform  `bg-#81ecec/50` to `bg-hex-81ecec_50`

- use 'hex' instead of '#' , `_` instead of `:` `/`
    * for example, `bg-#81ecec/50` can be converted to `bg-hex-81ecec_50`

- for '`hover:` and `active:`, `separators` can be set to specify the separator
    * for example, setting `separators` to `__`, `hover:bg-red-500` can be converted to `hover__bg-red-500`


1. [use npm in miniprogram](https://developers.weixin.qq.com/miniprogram/dev/devtools/npm.html)，install `unocss unocss-preset-weapp`

```shell
npm -D unocss unocss-preset-weapp
```

---
2. unocss.config

```js
import { defineConfig } from "unocss";
import presetWeapp from 'unocss-preset-weapp'

const include = [/\.wxml$/]

export default defineConfig({
  content:{
    pipeline:{
      include
    }
  },
  presets: [
    presetWeapp(),
  ],
  separators:'__'
})
```

---
## generate unocss.wxss

3. `package.json`，setting `script`
> use `@unocss/cli` to listen to file content，[documents](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages/cli)
```json
{
  "scripts": {
     "unocss": "unocss pages/**/*.wxml -c unocss.config.js --watch -o unocss.wxss",
     "unocss:build": "unocss pages/**/*.wxml -c unocss.config.js -o  unocss.wxss"
  }
}
```


---
4. run `npm run unocss`
> `wxml` content changes, trigger the generation of new `unocss.wxss`

![](https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209141401533.png)


---
5. import `unocss.wxss`
>  in `app.wxss`, impoort generated ` unocss.wxss`

```css
/**app.wxss**/
@import "./unocss.wxss";

.container {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: space-between;
  align-items: center;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  padding: 200rpx 0;
  height: 100%;
}
```

![](https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209141354363.gif)

---
## use vscode `unocss` plugin
* vscode `settings.json`

```json
  // 文件类型
"files.associations": {
  "*.wxml": "html",
},
```

<img src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209212036840.gif" style="zoom:50%;" />

---
## transformer

using `transformer` in mini programs will change the original file and is not recommended

* unocss.config.js
> add `transformerClass`，setting include `wxml`
```js
import { defineConfig } from "unocss";
import presetWeapp from 'unocss-preset-weapp'
import { transformerClass } from 'unocss-preset-weapp/transformer';

const include = [/\.wxml$/]

export default defineConfig({
  content:{
    pipeline:{
      include
    }
  },
  presets: [
    presetWeapp(),
  ],
  
  transformers:[
    transformerClass({
      include
    })
  ]
})
```

![](https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/MellowCo/image-host/2022/202209212019320.gif)

## Additional Notes

- At this time, the `box-shadow` shorthand notations like `,` and `[` aren't compatible with native mini-programs. This is due to certain restrictions on the platform that prevent the `transformer` from processing these notations. Therefore, a straightforward solution isn't available. We suggest using the [pre-configured](https://github.com/MellowCo/unocss-preset-weapp#box-shadow) settings instead. If these don't suffice, feel free to write your own CSS. You can find more discussion on this topic in this [thread](https://github.com/MellowCo/unocss-preset-weapp/issues/92).
